All right, here we are back in the project where we left off last time.
I have modified it a little bit, though, because I want to expand on what we were trying to do in
the last one.
So let me show you what I've changed here.
So a couple of things.
First, we originally only had, I think, one two, three, four different people, and now I've expanded
the list of people out just by putting numbers behind them and duplicating the.
So I duplicated the first three people five times each and then put numbers behind them.
So just so we'd have more data.
And then the other thing I did was to add one more field.
If you consider each of these comma separated columns basically as a field, if you will, I added another
field, which itself is comprised of additional little bits of information.
The reason I did this is because I want to expand the level of complexity of what we're trying to do.
In essence, we're just trying to have an excuse to calculate how much someone gets paid right.
And we have different roles like programmers, managers, analysts and a CEO.
But I wanted to make it a little less straightforward.
So in the last lesson, all we did was just take this simple list of programmer, manager, analyst
and CEO.
And we said, if you're a programmer, you get this much.
If you're a manager, you get that much.
If you're an analyst, you get this much.
Now I want to make it even more complex.
I want to say, if you're a programmer, maybe you start off with some base amount of pay, but then
we also can factor in certain other characteristics that may be specific to a programmer, such as the
lines of code that they code per day, which, by the way, is a terrible metric.
You should never measure a programmer by the number of lines of code they code per day.
That's just terrible.
Some great programmers may actually write fewer lines of code, but get the job done more effectively
and make better code.
But for this example, I'm just using an overly simplistic metric.
OK.
Terrible metric, though in real life.
All right.
Lines of code per day.
Years of experience and their IQ.
Probably also.
Maybe not a great.
A great way to gauge how much you should pay a programmer.
But I'm sure there's someone out there.
There's some manager who would see these metrics and think, Oh, that's a great way to measure whether
or not a programmer is any good.
All right.
And then for a manager, maybe they have an organizational size like the total number of people at every
level below them and then also like the number of direct reports they have, analysts might have like
a metric of how many projects they are working on.
And then the CEO, here's another terrible metric my CEO might have their pay affected by the average
of the stock price for the last 12 months or something, right?
So like the running average or something like that?
Terrible way to determine CEO compensation, by the way.
Really, really bad.
All right.
In my opinion, at least.
OK, so here's the thing.
When we were simply trying to gauge an employee's salary based on their role and only their role, it
was possibly sufficient just to do something as simple as what we have here, where we just say, OK,
if you're programming, you're getting three grand.
If you're a manager, 3500 analysts, 2500 CEO, five grand and everybody else gets zero.
Right?
Pretty simple.
It gets a little more more complicated, though, if you have to say, OK, if you're a programmer,
maybe we start with three grand, but then we also have to do some kind of a formula to factor in OK,
lines of code per day is two thousand.
And what do we do with that number, right?
Like we do some type of mathematical formula or some algorithm or something of something of that sort?
Right?
So one question is, do you still use a switch statement to even determine the amount right?
Is a switch statement still a good idea?
That's one question.
And then just in general, like, you know, how best can we make this determination, right?
So let's look at a few approaches for a moment here.
So I would say that using the Switch statement in this way obviously isn't going to work because we're
not factoring in these other metrics right now.
We could introduce the slightly more expanded form of the Switch statement like so and we'll start off
by just returning the same value, but using the slightly expanded format.
So we have to use the yield statement, which is.
Very much like a return statement to return a number, right?
OK, so we can we can do that.
And then we could consider how to extract the information.
So let's see if you're a programmer, we don't just want to return.
Oops, I have a typo there three thousand, we don't want to just return 3000.
We want to do some type of, you know, whatever formula or algorithm, right?
So we would need to extract this information.
So I've modified the projects here to say that all of the information in between these curly braces
here is in a CAPTCHA group called Details.
So we have access to that.
So we could consider having another regular expression.
Perhaps that allows us to parse out each of these bits.
So let's let's see what that might look like.
Maybe we'd have another rejects program programmer rejects, let's say, and we'll define this as something
like word characters one or more word characters, followed by an equals sign followed by one or more
word characters, followed by a comma.
All right, so we need to decide how do we want to allow ourselves to extract this information?
Now it's obviously pretty standardized.
They'd say we're not really allowing for the possibility that for a programmer details section, there
could be different properties here.
It looks like we've, you know, I've kind of decided to standardize on that, by the way, I just see
a little typo there.
I think that's supposed to be IQ.
All right.
So if this is standardized and we're always going to have three fields within this detail field, three
subfields within this detail field and they're always going to have the same field names, then we could
just use captcha groups to extract these individual values out.
So the way that might look is, let's see here.
We could do something like a bunch of words and an equal sign and then a bunch of words.
So we could just capture the words on the right hand side of the equals.
Sign like this and use a CAPTCHA group and we can call this first one L0 Sepedi like that.
And then maybe we can just copy all of this and then duplicate it two more times, except that there
won't be a closing comma there.
And then this one would be wiri, and then this one would be I.Q and then we'll put a semicolon there.
So this might allow us to parse all of this.
I say might, because, you know, I could always have a typo here.
So let's let's try this out and see.
I mean, I don't want to I don't want to learn this lesson into another regular expression lesson,
but I also didn't want to invent a whole bunch more code, including more rejects and missed the opportunity
to refresh your memories on rejects at least a little bit, you know?
So let's see if we can do this here.
Plus, we've never done this now.
Now we're going to we're going to have multiple regular expressions and and some will be embedded in
another really, right?
So let's see what that even looks like.
So what we can do is we can make another pattern.
This one I will call Coder Pattern Code or pat equals pattern dot compile.
And for this one, I'll pass in the Prague rejects.
OK, now here's something we haven't seen before using a regular expression in which the input string
for the expression for the matter is going to change many times.
OK.
So in this existing loop that we have here, we set up here.
Let me make a little space here just to make a distinction.
In fact, let me even move this pattern down with that one.
OK.
So here we are, creating our primary Reg X, which matches one whole line.
Any one of these lines?
OK.
That's what this reggae x does.
In fact, maybe I'm going to rename this uh, to people reggae x.
OK.
All right.
So these are the individual people.
And then we we compile that reggae x one time outside of the loop, and then we use the matcher one
time on the entire people string here.
OK.
And that's.
Sufficient and then in this loop by calling Match Dot find we end up essentially just iterating over
each line iterate, by the way, that means essentially when you have a list of something, you visit
each item in the list, OK to iterate a list means to visit or step through each item in that list,
right?
So the match or find method in effect is iterating through each line.
Now find itself.
The Find method itself doesn't iterate.
Lines of text.
It's the fact that our people rejects our people.
Regular expression here happens to match one full line of this string, and therefore, when we iterate
with the find method, we end up picking up one line at a time.
OK.
All right.
So that's great there.
But now we want to have an additional rejects that can pass this little bit here, right for each line.
So in this case, there's a there's a distinction here.
The input string that we want to pass with our rejects is going to change for each line, whereas with
the people rejects, this matter here doesn't change.
It's always just parsing this entire string one whole time.
Even though we're iterating over individual lines of the string, it's analyzing this whole entire string
just one time.
But with this new Rig X that we're about to use, we're going to be analyzing each of these fields of
this whole entire little substring here.
But this sub string is going to change for each person.
OK?
And so that means that we cannot define a match or like a coder, Matt.
We can't define this here.
Outside of the loop, because what would be the input for this, the input for this needs to be this
stuff right here.
OK.
And that's going to change for each and every person in this list.
And so we wouldn't be able to use this here because it needs to be able to grab the contents of the
details field for each of these programmers.
So we actually need to move this down.
Now we're down, do we need to move it?
Well, currently, since this is the matter for a coder, that would mean that we would need to move
this line down, not just inside of the loop, but actually inside of the loop and inside of the case
for a programmer or a coder.
So I'm going to indent this a couple of times here inside of the case.
So basically, it's inside of the curly braces for the programmer case.
OK.
And now I'll put a semicolon there, but then we need to actually grab this content, this content right
here.
And we have access to that because our people Rig X captures it in a captured group called Details.
OK.
So we can use this matter.
In fact, I have an example of it right here.
In fact, I'll just go ahead and just copy that.
Well, I'll type it out, Match Support Group details.
OK, so this matter, in fact, may be, yeah, let me let me go ahead and rename this this original
pattern and matter as well.
Just so we have a little more context.
So I will do a shift at six and I'll call this Oops.
I will call this.
Oops!
People.
Pattern or people, Pat and then I will rename this matter as well to people, Matt.
And now now we have a little bit more context of what's going on here.
So here we are using the find method of the people matcher.
Right?
And so we're finding the people right.
That's how you can think of this.
The people matchers, find finds each person in our list of people, which is just the string.
And here's our list of people.
In fact, here I'll even rename this to people text.
So that way, we have a little hint that that's a string of all the people, right?
All right.
So people match or find finds the individual people within the people text, then we can get rid of
this line.
That was just kind of some troubleshooting line that I put in.
Then we need a matter for the coder details.
And here we are creating that.
But we only created if we're inside of a programmer, right?
So if we're on a line that is a programmer, then we will use a coder matcher to parse out this stuff
here.
OK.
If we're on a manager, we would need to use a different matter for that.
Does that make sense?
All right.
So let's see here.
Let's just focus on a programmer for right now, though.
So now we have a match or hopefully for the programmer details.
And let's just let's print a couple of those details out just to make sure.
So let's do a formatted system died out.
So.
So you.
And let's say something like
Programmer LLC, four lines of code is something.
And what else?
Years of experience.
Years of experience is whatever.
Oops.
I'll just make everything a string for now, and IQ and IQ is whatever.
And then we'll have a new line, I guess.
All right.
So then we'll bind all of the data for the way we can get those fields is to just use this coder matcher
coder Matt Dot Group.
And the thing was the first field is called Ello CPD..
We have it right here, actually.
Ello CPD.
And then I'm just going to copy this and paste two more times.
Oops, I missed my comma there.
All right.
And so now I can just change these field names y o e, and the other one is IQ IQ.
So let's let's analyze this.
So this while loop is going to iterate over each line in this people text one line at a time.
Right?
And then this case says if the current line that we're iterating over is a programmer line, OK, which
which is determined by using the people match or group that role or people match workgroup role, right?
Which is this field here?
So if that field matches the word programmer, then let's make a programmer or a coder matcher for the
details field.
So each of these people has a detail's field, which is this bit here that's in curly braces and that's
defined in this people rejects right here.
OK, so we're saying like there's a comma and some space, maybe, and then a an opening curly brace,
which I had to escape, by the way, because curly brace and regex is usually used for indicating the
number of matches, right?
But in this case, I want it to be treated literally.
So I had to use two back slashes to tell Java and the Rejects engine that I want that curly brace to
be treated literally.
OK, so space followed by a an opening curly brace and then zero or more characters until it gets to
a closing curly brace.
Now let's be careful about this greedy modifier here, so we'll find out in a moment what this is going
to do.
Although I pretty much already tested this and it should be good.
But just keep in mind from that lesson about the greedy modifier.
So if you see weird things going on there, you may need to specify that this should not be greedy.
OK.
All right.
So let's see.
Yeah, let's go ahead and run this and see what we end up with.
No match found and it died at Line 41 in our code.
Now remember when this is a stack trace, and typically I ignore the lines that are listed in the stack
trace that are in code that I didn't write.
OK, so Rig X match or get matched group index, that's not code that I wrote, so I don't want to dig
into that.
There's nothing wrong with that code.
That's code that was written by the team that made Java.
There's nothing wrong with it.
I want to look at my code because that's probably where the problem is.
And so the first line in this stack trace going backward that I wrote is Line Forty One, so I can click
on that and jump straight to it.
OK, so it does not like something here, and it's saying no match found.
OK.
It just occurred to me what the problem is, and it's a dumb one.
Let's see.
So I'm creating the matter here, and then I use the coder match and then I proceed to use it.
However, I never told it to actually go find anything, have to have to tell it to actually find something.
So let's see if we do something like, Oh, I don't know if code or Mat Dot find, then uh, let's embed
these two lines like so.
OK, so if it finds anything that matches the coder pattern, then use some of the data that it finds
in the code or pattern, such as the code or match or that group, ELO, Sepedi, etc. And in fact,
I think I can go ahead and probably uncomment this line out.
And let's indent that now.
And I'm also guessing I probably won't need this one.
I'll just comment that out.
All right, so let's run this, and I think it should work.
There we go.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's see.
And let's not print that out.
Let's run that once more.
OK.
Programmer LLC two thousand thirteen hundred Yet.
There we are.
So we're now extracting out the individual fields of the details of a programmer here.
Perfect.
All right.
So now we don't need that either.
So hey, that just goes to show you even the most professional of programmers can forget things, right?
And in my case, I totally forgot to tell the Matra to actually go find something.
So let this be just another re.
Reminder that our matcher won't actually match anything if we don't either call the find method or the
matches method, we have to call at least one of those two methods to tell to actually go, go, go,
go, actually try to find something.
All right.
So now now that we have access to these data, the next thing I think I want to do is I want to actually
extract variables from each of these fields so that it'll be a little easier to do something with them.
So I'm going to do a an option up arrow and select all of that and then a command option V and extract
this.
And I will call it whatever the ADC is recommending for now.
L0 CPD..
Sounds good to me, and then I'll do it again on this next bit here and extract that variable.
And sure, I'll call it that.
And one more time for the I.Q.
And there we go and hit enter.
OK, so now we've extracted out those variables there.
So now we could consider whatever our algorithm is going to be.
Now I might want to convert some of these values into a more appropriate data type currently because
I extracted them all via regex.
Everything's coming out as a string.
But really, I probably might want to do some math or something like that, some kind of a formula.
And so I'd rather that these be actual numbers, right?
So here's where I'm extracting these guys so I could convert them into numbers kind of inline like on
these same lines.
And then these things here just won't be strings anymore.
And I am kind of inclined to do it that way because I just don't want to make, you know, like six
like three more lines or whatever where I'm converting again.
So let's see what that might look like.
So maybe I'm OK with these all just being integers that looks like it will suffice for now.
So what I can do then is use the integer wrapper pass method pass int and then just wrap all of these
in integers.
And now I have to change this data type to an end.
There we go, and it looks like we are good there.
And so now I will do the same thing.
Now let me see if I can get a little fancier.
I'm going to put my cursor here on front in front of this one.
Then I'm going to hold down on the option shift button and I'm going to click again in front of this
second coder met right there and that gives me two cursors.
And now I should be able to type all of this again on two lines simultaneously, and then I can hold
down on the command button and go to the end of this line and then go back one and then close that off.
Like so and then I should even be able to hit the home button to go to the beginning of the line and
then select this and then type and and then hit Enter.
There we go and then hit Escape to get out of this double cursor business that I've got.
So that was nice.
I literally will almost literally killed two birds with one stone edited two lines with for the price
of one.
All right.
So now I've got actual numbers that I can work with and do some kind of math.
And honestly, I haven't even decided what sort of formula I want to use here.
Maybe I just keep it simple and do something like just multiply or whatever.
Maybe I take the the original number.
We had like that three thousand, and then I add that plus these numbers multiplied by each other.
Let's let's keep it relatively simple for right now.
All right.
So then let's see here.
In that case, let's just do something like this.
Let's eat.
Let's yield.
3000 plus L0.
CPD times wainui.
Times IQ.
OK, so if this was a match, then we will return the value of three thousand plus all of these multiplied
by each other.
Otherwise, this line is going to execute, which was the original logic that we had before.
OK, now I'm feeling like I'm feeling a little lazy right now, but I am going to point out to you.
Perhaps a slightly better thing to do would be to capture this value in a variable.
You know what, now that I'm saying, it might as well go ahead and do it.
So here this is probably the better thing to do.
Integer salary equals zero.
And then let's do this.
Salary equals that else.
Salary equals just 3000, then yield salary.
So you see what I'm doing here rather than having two different possible yield statements.
I prefer to just capture all the values in one variable.
And then both circumstances, the circumstance where we do have a match and then the circumstance where
we don't have a match are kind of more explicit here.
And then I capture all of that in this salary variable and then I just yield or basically return that
one variable there.
Rather than having the possibility for two different return statements, you'll find as a professional
developer that some development teams will use tools to analyze and check their code, and some tools
don't like it when you have multiple possibilities for return statements within a code branch or something
like that.
And I am assuming that the yield statement may be analyzed similarly to the return statement.
So I personally prefer if I'm not feeling too lazy to only have one return statement, which in this
case would be this one yield rather than multiples.
And that means I need to capture my individual cases or circumstances in a variable.
And then recall, I had to declare this variable outside of the if statement because I am referencing
it outside of the if statement at the bottom here, rather than if I had declared this salary inside
of the statement, then it would not be available to me here outside of the if statement.
OK.
All right.
So let's go ahead and stop here, and we're going to flesh out the same type of logic for the other
roles manager, analyst and CEO in the next lesson.
So I'll see you in the next one.